>> So far we have an index DV database.
And we know it's the content of that
database is being served using cache
first, but
that's not the only algorithm available.
So if you continue to
the next chapter here, so
I have already a code
that is network first.
So let me replace.
I will load or just add another version so
I can just come back here
to my code to main ujs and
these let's call this load
cache first I'm going to
add another load or
just paste the one that I have.
And let's try to analyze this algorithm,
so I'm opening database that's okay and
then trying to fetch from the network
always as the first action, okay?
And I'm filling the menu with
what comes from the network,
as before, but
what if the fetch cannot be done?
For example, the server is down,
the JSON that is returning
from the server is invalid,
or we don't have connection?
It will fail,
the promise will be rejected, and
because I'm using a wait,
I can use try catch.
So if I catch an error, it's because,
yeah, it's not working.
Getting the data from
the server is not working.
Well, now let's go to the database,
only if the network failed.
But also we need something else.
Every time we are getting
successfully the data from
the server we can also update
the cache at that moment so we clear.
Clear will actually delete all
the data in the data store and
I'm updating my database, so
this is the scenario again,
we open the app we try to get
the menu from the server first.
If it works, okay, we update the cache for
the future, and we serve from the network.
If we open the PWA without connection,
when we try to fetch,
it's not going to work, so
then we use as a fall back,
the index DB database that was updated the
last time that we could fetch, make sense?
It's just an algorithm, so
not nothing new from an API point of view.
It is just reordering the logic
of what you're doing.
And you can create your
own algorithm here.
There are more ideas, okay?
It's up to you make a decision of
how do you want to update the data,
when, If you prefer fresh data or if you
prefer fast data, it's your decision.
Any question, you have any question?
We have something.
>> Yeah, this might be something
that you have to troubleshoot,
but someone in the chat says,
Indexed DB object store is not dynamically
updating on my Chrome DevTools and
not showing the latest data.
I'm manually using the refresh
database option to the latest data.
>> Yeah, yeah That's correct.
So on most of DevTools, not just Chromium,
on most of DevTools you have to
manually refresh the data because
from a performance point of view,
also from an event point of view.
So even DevTools doesn't know when you
are changing the database or the data,
so you actually need your re-querry,
and that's the refresh button.
And by the way,
if we try this on Safari or Firefox,
you will find the same issue there and
here on Safari, and if I inspect this and
they open store catche,
I have my Index DB database here as well.
And we also have the refresh button here,
but the order is empty right now.
So on every web tools on browser,
you will find the refresh button.
So you will need to
manually refresh the data.
Well, actually With that,
most of the Indexed DB basic
behavior was already covered.
So what's next or
what you can continue reading about, but
using the library is actually
pretty simple, transactions.
Again transaction is a way to execute more
than one operation under one transaction.
It's actually not a big deal.
Cursors, in case instead of getting all
the values, I can go and read one by one.
So if you have 1000 objects,
it will be much faster to read
one by one that get in all
the objects in memory at once, okay?
So that's possible.
Filters for cursor, It's not like really
complex but you can actually say, hey,
I want elements starting with
the letter A, or something like that.
You cannot make really complex queries but
there are some things you can do and
things around performance like
measuring performance on every browser,
how to measure performance so then you can
start playing with different techniques,
techniques to actually make queries.
But with what we've covered so
far, you will be good for
95% of the use cases of Indexed DB,
actually.